# Assignment 2

### Prerequisites
All you will need is some version of gcc to compile the c code. For debian based linux distributions (Ubuntu), you can simply install `sudo apt install build-essential`. Alternative linux distributions may use a differnet package manager. 

To run this program, simply run 
`gcc sorting.c`
to compile the c code. This will create a file; `a.out`. You can then execute this file by running `./a.out`

### Parameters
At the top of the program, you will see an integer called `size`. this is the number of elements in each array that you are going to be sorting. 

At the top of the main function, you'll see a comment, `// Single Runs:`. The lines that directly follow this will run the sorting algorithms, each with `size` unique elements, and track the time, only once.

Below this, you'll see a comment `//Multiple runs for Mean:` and some code below it. This is the code to run the mean calculation, which will create a new array with `size` unique elements (each of which can be any integer). It will then pass that new array into the perspective sorting algorithm, and once it is completed sorting it will repeat another 19 times. After summing the runtime for each of these values, we divide by the number of values we used, in this case, 20, to get the mean. 

I am tracking runtime in a ~less than optimal~ *unique* way. Each of my sorting algorithms have their own functions and helper functions as necessary. There is there a wrapper function for each of the algorithms, ex. `time_merge_sort`, which also uses system calls to create a file in the current directory called `start_time.txt`. The only thing I output here is the system time, in nanoseconds, right before I start the sorting algorithm. This will look something like 
      
      s794242833

      

This is generated by `date +s%N` which gives me the system time in nanoseconds. I just mark the start time here, and then open the file to read it afterward, and calculate the difference to find our runtime. This is the primary function of the `time_<algorithm>` functions.
